#summary How to install a binary release of IL2DCE.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support,Featured

= Introduction =

This document contains instructions on how to install a binary release IL2DCE. Developers should follow the [Compile_Instructions Compile Instructions].


= Details =

At certain development stages a binary release is provided at [http://code.google.com/p/il2dce/downloads/list http://code.google.com/p/il2dce/downloads/list]. 


== Install IL2DCE ==

  # Download the latest binary release at [http://code.google.com/p/il2dce/downloads/list http://code.google.com/p/il2dce/downloads/list] into a folder of your choice.
  # Navigate to this folder and execute the downloaded file (e.g. IL2DCE-a.b.c.d.exe)
  # Accept the license agreement (not implemented)
  # Select the root path of your _IL-2 Sturmovik: Cliffs of Dover_ installation ($home). This path depends on the root path of your Steam installation ($steam). The root path of _IL-2 Sturmovik: Cliffs of Dover_ is always at "$steam\steamapps\common\il-2 sturmovik cliffs of dover\". For a default installation the path is
    * "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\il-2 sturmovik cliffs of dover\" for _Windows 7 (64 Bit)_ or
    * "C:\Program Files\Steam\steamapps\common\il-2 sturmovik cliffs of dover\" for _Windows 7 (32 Bit)_.
  # Finish the install process.

The installer creates files within the "$home\AddIns" and "$home\parts\IL2DCE" folder.

== Update IL2DCE (not implemented) ==
Execute the uninstall process before you install another version of IL2DCE.

== Uninstall IL2DCE ==

  # Navigate to folder "$home\parts\IL2DCE" and execute the uninstaller (uninst.exe)
  # Confirm the uninstall path.
  # Finish the uninstall process.

The uninstaller removes the files that were created during the install process. It does not remove customer campaigns that were installed by the user.